                   5 Year Integrated M. Sc. (Computer Science) - III
                      Object Oriented Concepts and Programming

                                     Practical Sheet — I

Note : (1) Programs should have proper validations for the inputs
       (2) Use proper variable names
       (3) Program should contain program definition as comments and
        should have proper Indentation


Classes , Obiects , Functions

   1. Write a program to create class Student with student’s rollno, name and
      marks of three subjects (OOCP, DBMS and English) and display the details of
     student with total marks of all subjects along with the percentage in proper
     format.(Output should be in descending order of percentage.
    . Write a program to create class Num (int n1, int n2, int n3, int n4). Display
      total and average of n1, n2, n3 and n4.
    . Write a program to create class Time (int h, int m). Read a value as minutes
     from user to display new time after adding the value to minutes in Time.
     Write a program to create class Date (int day, int month, int year). Read a
     value as day from user to display new date after adding the value to day in
     Date.
    . Write a program to create class employee with employee’s id, name and basic
      salary. Calculate gross salary for each employee(HRA 20%, DA 30%, 0A 10%).
    . Write a program to deﬁne a class called book. Write a program to read
     information about 10 books and display books details in ascending order of
     price in proper format.
    . Demonstrate the use of static variables in a class by using it to count the
      number of times the value is being inputted in the program.
    . Create class STUDENT having rollno, name and age as data members, also
     take subject with three subjects and initialize their value with minimum
     passing marks. Using member function, modify marks of student with speciﬁc
      rollno which is given by user.
    . Deﬁne a class to represent a bank account. Include the following members :

     DATA MEMBERS                   MEMBER FUNCTIONS

     Name of depositor               (1) To assign initial values
     Account Number                   (2) To Deposit the amount
     Type of Account                 (3) To withdraw an amount after checking the
     Balance amount in account       (4) To display name and balance

     Write C++ program to handle 10 customers.
10. Write a program to create class ‘Search’ having data members (int a[ ], X) and
    deﬁne member functions as void input(), void output(), void search(int position),
    void add(int value) to display result.
